---
title: Gays in an Electrical Closet
date: "2020-02-06"
description: An essay I wrote in English class about the Cal Poly Pride Center
tags:
  - essay
  - school
  - queer
  - queerphobia
---

On the northwestern side of the University Union building (commonly referred to
as the UU) is a door with the words "Pride Center" printed on it next to a large
TV advertising LGBT-related events this quarter. Its position is rather
unassuming, and somewhat hidden from the main entrances to the UU, but not
quite. The door has been kept closed due to recent harassment events, but one of
the regulars there did put a sign on the door saying, "Come in, we're open!"
Inside is a warmly-lit space. The overhead lights are rarely turned on, and most
lighting comes from the lamps around the room. To the left are electrical
cabinets that route power to different parts of the UU, a reminder of how the
Pride Center is (quite ironically) a repurposed electrical closet. To the right
are colorful pins for different pronouns and identities that anyone can take.

"When I'm alone in there writing an essay… I vibe. I work. I work really hard."
Allison [^2] is a an asexual aromantic [^3] first year history major, and like
many other members of the queer community, she often visits the Pride Center to
study and get her work done. "It's a really comfortable space," she added
(Allison). Karl, a gay third-year math major, said that his favorite parts about
the Pride Center are "the people in it, followed by the printing, followed by
the fact that the lights are very low, the couches, the blanket…" (Zieber) There
are two couches across from each other in the front, and you can often find
people seated together doing homework, or just sleeping on them between classes.
There is a section with desks in the back, with whiteboards above. Sometimes,
the whiteboards have math and physics problems written all over them, from
people studying and receiving help. Other times, people write more lighthearted
things on there, like a tongue-in-cheek list of "cool trans facts," with items
ranging from silly things like "trans teens backwards is sneet snart" to
actually cool facts like "trans women are responsible for computers working
properly."[^4]

Queer people on campus face intense discrimination on campus. At Cal Poly in
general, "LGBTQIA community members (15.1% of students) report a less positive
experience than their heterosexual peers (84.3% of students)" (Williams 30), and
this is reflected in the stories my interviewees recounted. Declan, a gay
first-year political science major, heard slurs tossed around a lot when he was
in a group with other queer people. "Nothing ever really directed at [him]
personally, because" he typically isn't the most queer-presenting person in
those groups (Galli). It seems to have been worse; during Karl's first year, his
roommate called him a fag behind his back, and he came home to his dorm one day
to see sticky notes saying "fuck Karl," and "why is Karl gay?" Personally, as a
first-year, I never had to deal with anything this direct, but I feel like it
was a bit more subtle. When I lived on an all-male floor in the engineering
dorms as an extremely closeted trans woman, I was openly bisexual, but I didn't
reveal my gender identity. I didn't recieve any direct discrimination, but the
environment felt hostile. The boys were always discussing girls in an
objectifying way. Even if non-straight people like me were somewhat tolerated,
gayness and anal sex were common punchlines for some of their jokes, and it felt
like being gay had the connotation of being lesser. My roommates had a really
transphobic conversation while I was in there with them, and I had to remain
silent on that, no matter how uncomfortable I felt, for fear of any kind of
conflict that would make life harder than it already was. I ended up moving out
because I didn't feel safe or welcomed there.

There are plenty of other people who afraid to come out of the closet in the
face of this discrimination. Everest,[^5] who is a black nonbinary aerospace
engineering major in their third year. They haven't received much queer
discrimination as an LGBTQ person, just as a black person, especially in the
light of the blackface incident (Everest). They are afraid to come out because
if they did, they would not only be the target of racism, but transphobia
stacked on top of that.

That's where the Pride Center comes in. It's a place where LGBTQ people build
community, make connections, and socialize. Jenna, a nonbinary first-year
manufacturing engineering major, feels like the Pride Center is "[their] own
space… It will have people that [they] know [they] have something in common
with" (Jenna). Allison says that she "often talks about politics or sometimes
other LGBTQ issues, or… global warming." Allison recounted a time when she and
several other people were "on the floor was discussing [a recent anti-abortion
event in the UU] in a circle. That's just what we do, we talk about politics and
shit like this. Apparently, ‘normal' people don't do that?" She also mentioned
how she "had a religious conversation in the Pride Center with a complete
stranger… having a breakdown… [over] feeling unaccepted as an atheist" and
bonded with them, reassuring them that "other people who don't believe in God
exist too." In these discussions of sensitive topics, "even when you say
something dumb… they're very considering of the fact that you probably come from
a different place, or maybe that you misunderstood something, or missaid
something." It's a space free of judgement, where people support each other, and
ideas can flow freely. It makes a great safe space where queer people can bond
over shared struggles. I can relate to this as well: so many times, I get drawn
into an interesting conversation that comes up, distracting me from more
important things like profile essays for English class.

Especially for first years, though, it's a great place to meet queer
upperclassmen and get advice from them. Declan has learned about "what it's like
being an out queer person in SLO, as a same-sex couple or queer couple, or what
places you don't want to go. Mostly it's OK to go within SLO. You don't want to
go to Atascadero, I've learned." It's not just advice for queer people, either:
I've gotten help with planning out my class schedule and navigating the Student
Portal. Declan got help with withdrawing from a course, too. The Pride Center
isn't just a provider of resources; the community it builds up is a resource.

However, the Pride Center wasn't always such an inclusive space. Kimi, a
fifth-year mechanical engineering major who is non-binary, took a peek inside as
a "really closeted" freshman. "It looked very homogenous in there, as in… a lot
of white cisgender gay men, and [Kimi] did not fit that bill." They were a bit
"intimidated" by it, putting them off from going in (Kodama). Iris, a fifth-year
computer science grad student who is a trans lesbian, described a similar
experience, adding that the regulars at the Pride Center "were very racist, they
were very transmisogynistic." She even felt that the atmosphere was borderline
"TERF-y"[^6] at times, too (Kohler). In recent years, though, it has gotten
better. She saw more people of color at the Pride Center during her third,
fourth, and fifth years, and "the space became a lot healthier for people of
color." Kimi finally went into the Pride Center last year after they went to a
meeting for a club on campus called Queer and Trans People Of Color (QTPOC).
It's really shocking how different Iris' and Kimi's experiences were from
everyone else I interviewed, as well as my own experience. As a person of color
and a trans woman, I felt included there. Everyone who came to Cal Poly after
Kimi reported a positive experience, and also felt very included. So many of the
people I see in the Pride Center now are people of color, and there are so many
womxn-identifying people[^7] that the Pride Center has run out of she/her pins.
They form such a central part of our community, it's hard for me to imagine what
it would be like without them. The older students' experiences emphasize why
spaces like this can't just focus on a single identity; it needs to accommodate
all kinds of intersections of identities.

Being in a relatively public place in the UU, which is at the center of the
school, there have been some incidents of harassment around it, often by
Christians. A few incidents occured in Fall Quarter 2019, and at least five
incidents that all happened in a single week in January 2020, some of which I
personally witnessed. One time in January, I was studying in the Pride Center
when a man and a woman from Mercy Church, an evangelical Christian club on
campus, walked into the Pride Center and distributed flyers for some kind of
prayer event that night. This incident wasn't directly confrontational or
queerphobic, but it did leave a bad taste in my mouth. Even though Christian
queers do exist, many members of the queer community have not had a good
experience with Christianity in general, particuarly of the evangelical kind. A
few hours later, Everest was in the Pride Center when

> [A] creepy guy… who kind of looked like he was a custodian, but didn't look
> like the average age of even a graduate student on campus… didn't even say hi,
> he just walked in, sat down, and then he was looking at our books… [giving >
> off] Christian proselytizing sort of vibes… It got more and more
> uncomfortable… It's kind of making the Pride Center a little less… safe to be
> in.

To my knowledge, that man went back to the Pride Center the next day, and
harassed some more people before getting a restraining order from the police.
Everest, who is Catholic, "understands the sentiment" of these kinds of
proselytizing people: they think "our lives are just, only suffering" and are
trying to "make themselves feel better" in a way. I know of someone who was
there for four out of the five incidents, and I can see how people can be drawn
away from the Center in light of this. It demonstrates that safe spaces need
strong protection in order to back up their safety.

Previously, administration required that the door be left wide open, but now,
they allow it to be kept closed due to these recent harassment incidents. Iris
thought that it was about time for this decision to be made: "Our administration
needs to actually listen to students more, especially people who have been here
for 5 years and know that ‘hey, it's a bad idea to constantly leave the door
open!'" I think this is a welcome change; I always felt like I was being judged
by people staring in from outside. However, Kimi knows some people who might
want to take that a step further. "There's been a debate between whether or not
it'd be better if the Pride Center was in a less open and obvious place, so if
you walk in and out you don't feel like you're getting watched as you're walking
out of the closet… by everyone who's around." Since they present androgynously,
they often "get some interesting looks when [they] walk out of the Pride
Center." It's interesting how the act of going into the Pride Center and sitting
there reveals to everyone around me that I am queer. In a twist of poetic irony,
to walk into the closet, you end up walking out of the closet.

Moving the Pride Center to a new place might also help with another common
complaint that it needs to be a bigger space. When I asked Declan what he wished
the school could do, his eyes lit up and he immediately said, "Make us a bigger
building! Give us, like, you know, several rooms at least? You know, more than
50 square feet?" Iris noted that it used to be even smaller: "the roof used to
be lower" and there was even "a storage closet within the closet," which "was
the source of many jokes." However, she thinks "it'd be nice to have an actually
good space… one that isn't zoned as a utility closet with a maximum occupancy of
nine, because we've been breaking that consistently." Additionally, they want
more resources for cisgender, heterosexual allies. Declan says that "people
don't know all the terms," and he would like to see "information sessions for
people [about allyship]... mythbusting all the terms." Iris wants resources for
LGBT people about "how to be a better ally to other [LGBT] people. Plenty of
LGBT people who are say, white, or able, or cisgender… can still have a lot of
bigotry" and having reasons for "why we should be allies to these communities as
much as they should be allies to ours" can reduce this.

Being queer can be scary, but seeking out a community for support can make the
world feel a little less scary. When I asked Kimi for advice for other queer
folks, they said, "Sometimes, you have to go… seek out the resources. They won't
come to you. It can be really scary to seek out those resources." Everest said,
"You can come to the Pride Center without feeling like you're completely out to
everyone you know on campus necessarily." Kimi added, "You can literally go in
questioning and people will still celebrate that." Allison said, "I know for all
the introverts, it seems like it could be a lot worse, but it's actually not
that bad… If you need a place to study and you don't know where to go, I would
consider the Pride Center a very good place. Just pop in some headphones and no
one will talk to you."

I wish I had been told this earlier: I learned about the Pride Center during SLO
Days, but I was too afraid to go in until a friend wanted to meet with me there.
That first time was a bit awkward, especially as a person who is a bit socially
anxious and timid, but I continued going there afterwards. That was for the
better, because I met a lot of great people there who helped me through tough
times. Everest sums it up best: "The Pride Center is a safe space for you to be
yourself if you feel like you can't be yourself anywhere else on campus."

## Works Cited

- Allison. Personal Interview. 27 January 2020.
- Everest. Personal Interview. 30 January 2020.
- Galli, Declan. Personal Interview. 27 January 2020.
- Kohler, Iris. Personal Interview. 30 January 2020.
- Jenna. Personal Interview. 28 January 2020.
- Zieber, Karl. Personal Interview. 30 January 2020.
- Kodama, Kimi. Personal Interview. 29 January 2020.
- Williams, Damon A, et al. "Embracing the Journey: The CPX Research Study
  Executive Report." _Cal Poly Diversity and Inclusion_, California Polytechnic
  State University, 2019,
  [content-calpoly-edu.s3.amazonaws.com/diversity/1/images/Cal_Poly_ExecReport_Final-2.1_compressed.pdf](https://content-calpoly-edu.s3.amazonaws.com/diversity/1/images/Cal_Poly_ExecReport_Final-2.1_compressed.pdf).

[^2]: Allison is using a pseudonym.
[^3]:
    Asexual (the A in LGBTQIA+) means she doesn't experience sexual attraction
    to anyone. Aromantic means she doesn't experience romantic attraction to
    anyone. For her, this means "no penis, no vagina, no cuddles, no spoons,"
    but others may have a different experience due to it being a spectrum. For
    example, a different asexuals may be more willing to have sex, but not as
    much as non-asexual people.

[^4]:
    This is a reference to transgender computing pioneers like Sophie Wilson and
    Lynn Conway.

[^5]: Everest is using a pseudonym.
[^6]:
    TERF stands for "trans-exclusionary radical feminist," though the 'feminist'
    part is a misnomer. It describes a person who appropriates feminist rhetoric
    to make their transphobia seem less conservative. Not only are they
    transphobic, but they often end up reinforcing gender traditional gender
    roles and stereotypes, harming cisgender women as well, which is
    antithetical to actual feminism. Recently, TERFs have been trying to
    distance themselves from the term, attempting to label it a slur (which is
    not) and rebranding themselves as "gender-critical."

[^7]:
    Womxn is a term that is used to explicitly include transgender women and
    femme-identifying nonbinary people.
